Eric Grosse works on hardening open source systems, after
retiring in Feb 2015 from the role of VP Security & Privacy
Engineering at Google, leading a team of 500 who ensure
systems and data stay safe and users' privacy remains secure.
Improved and wider use of SSL, stronger consumer authentication
technology, detection and blocking of foreign espionage,
transparency on government requests for data, sophisticated
malware analysis, tools and frameworks for safer building of
web applications are among the achievements of the Google
Security Team.

Before Google, Eric was a Research Director and Fellow at Lucent
Bell Labs where he worked on security, networking, algorithms for
approximation and visualization, software distribution, and
scientific computing.  He has a PhD in Computer Science from
Stanford.





At Bell Labs he founded an internal venture, CloudControl, that
offered enterprise security officers a unique opportunity to
quickly install up to a million address filters in carrier
networks to block or rate-limit unwanted traffic hitting their
enterprise from the Internet, based on automated analysis of
web server and other logs.

He applied encrypted key exchange to build an incrementally and
quietly deployable single-signon solution, called Factotum, that
stores credentials in the network and improves the security even
of legacy authentication protocols, all without requiring new
central or federated trust relationships.  This was part of a
redesign of security in the Plan 9 operating system, which was
well received at the USENIX Security conference.

In an earlier security project, he supervised the team that built
the prototype Lucent Managed Firewall, designed to be used like
watertight compartment doors throughout an enterprise or provider
with delegated control but central supervision.  He also collaborated
on a VPN appliance that separates security administration from PC
administration.  He built a smartcard based system for Lucent
licensing applications.

He co-founded and continues to help run the Netlib repository of
mathematical software, widely used by the scientific computing
community.  The systems issues involved in scaling that up were
intriguing and led him to his current focus on security from his
earlier work on numerical analysis.

Algorithms for approximation and visualization, especially ones driven
by problems from semiconductor design and fabrication, were the main
theme of his first years at Bell Labs.  Powerful tools like splines
enabled rapid addition of new transistor designs into circuit
simulators that had previously used ad hoc, labor intensive
semi-analytic models.  This was a challenge because of the multiple
variables, the need to preserve monotonicity, and the continuity and
performance requirements.  In combination with numerical optimization,
some of these spline techniques allow unique nondestructive
measurement of heterostructure lasers.  Other multivariate
approximation innovations include: isosurface-aligned grids, critical
to more accurate silicon energy band models for Boltzman transport;
multivariate generalization of the lowess moving least squares
algorithm, widely used in the statistical community for smoothing
scattered data; first proof of non-obtuse, no-small-angle
triangulation of polygons, a result that launched a flurry of
additional work on the outside leading to some of today's best grid
generators.

He majored in mathematics as an undergraduate, then earned a PhD in
Computer Science at Stanford University under Gene Golub with a thesis
on tensor splines.  He has served on the editorial boards of ACM
Trans.  Math.  Software, IEEE Computational Science & Engineering,
Netlib/NHSE, Numerical Algorithms, SIAM Journal on Scientific
Computing, SIAM News, SIAM Software Environments and Tools, SIAM
Electronic Publishing and the SIAM Council and Board of Trustees.


selected publications:

Eric Grosse and Mayank Upadhyay.  Authentication at Scale.
IEEE Security and Privacy 11(1) 15-22 (2013).

Erik Anderlind et al.  IMS Security.  Bell Labs Technical Journal
11(1) 37-58 (2006).     {my part was the future work section}

Eric Grosse and Y. N. Lakshman.  Network processors applied to
IPv4/IPv6 transition.  IEEE Networks}, July 2003.

Russ Cox, Eric Grosse, Rob Pike, David Presotto, and Sean Quinlan.
Security in Plan 9.  In Proceedings of the 11th USENIX Security
Symposium, August 5--9, 2002, San Francisco, CA, USA.}, pages 3--16.
ISBN 1-931971-00-5, USENIX Association, 2560 Ninth St., Suite 215,
Berkeley CA 94710 USA.

Cliff Young, Y. N. Lakshman, Tom Szymanski, John Reppy, David
Presotto, Rob Pike, Girija Narlikar, Sape Mullender, and Eric Grosse.
Protium, and infrastructure for partitioned applications.  In Eighth
IEEE Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating Systems (HotOS-VIII).  May
20--23, 2001, Schoss Elmau, Germany}, pages 41--46, 1109 Spring
Street, Suite 300, Silver Spring, MD 20910, USA, 2001.  IEEE.

Brenda S. Baker and Eric Grosse.  Local control over filtered {WWW}
access.  In Fourth International World Wide Web Conference}, 103a
Morris Street, Sebastopol, CA 95472, USA, December 1995.  O'Reilly \&
{Associates, Inc.} Boston, MA.

Eric Grosse.  Repository mirroring.  ACM Trans.  Math.  Software},
21(1):89--97, March 1995.

W. M. Coughran, Jr., W. Fichtner, and Eric Grosse.  Extracting
transistor charges from device simulations by gradient fitting.  IEEE
Trans.  on Computer-Aided Design}, 8:380--394, 1989.

William S. Cleveland, Susan J. Devlin, and Eric Grosse.  Regression by
local fitting: Methods, properties, and computational algorithms.  J.
Econometrics}, 37:87--114, 1988.

Brenda Baker, Eric Grosse, and Conor Rafferty.  Non-obtuse
triangulation of polygons.  J. Discrete and Computational Geometry},
3:147--168, 1988.

Jack J. Dongarra and Eric Grosse.  Distribution of mathematical
software via electronic mail.  Communications of the ACM},
30:403--407, 1987.

E. H. Grosse.  Tensor spline approximation.  Linear Algebra and Its
applications}, 34:29--41, 1980.
